




"""
User
Pass array of objects (each with two fields) as query parameter in Swagger OpenApi 3.0
ChatGPT

To define an array of objects as a query parameter in Swagger OpenAPI 3.0, you need to specify the parameter in your OpenAPI (formerly known as Swagger) specification file. Here's a step-by-step guide on how to do it:

    Define the Parameter in the Path: You need to define the parameter in the path of your API endpoint. OpenAPI 3.0 supports complex structures as query parameters, which means you can define an array of objects.

    Specify the Parameter as an Array: Indicate that the parameter is an array and define the items (objects) in the array.

    Describe the Objects in the Array: Each object in the array should be defined with its respective fields.

Here's an example of how you could define such a parameter in your OpenAPI specification:

yaml

paths:
  /your-api-endpoint:
    get:
      summary: Your API endpoint summary
      description: Description of your API endpoint
      operationId: yourOperationId
      parameters:
        - name: yourParameterName
          in: query
          description: Description of your array of objects
          required: true
          explode: true
          schema:
            type: array
            items:
              type: object
              properties:
                field1:
                  type: string
                  description: Description of field1
                field2:
                  type: integer
                  description: Description of field2

In this example:

    your-api-endpoint is the endpoint of your API.
    yourParameterName is the name of your query parameter.
    field1 and field2 are the fields of each object in the array.
    explode: true ensures that each object in the array is a separate parameter pair in the query string.

Remember, the actual implementation of how these objects are serialized and parsed in the query string might depend on the specific framework or library you are using on the server side. Some frameworks may require a specific format for passing arrays of objects in query parameters.
"""

"""
https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-parameters/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68452127/pass-array-as-query-parameter-in-swagger-openapi-3-0
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22080770/sending-an-array-of-values-through-the-query-parameters-of-a-get-request/47557828#47557828


All this makes it seem like it might be possible to pass an array of objects in query, but it's not clear to how to declare this in FastAPI to make it work. Hence the current double array approach. (which seems to work well).

"""

